---
title: Discovering Chester - A Whimsical Journey through History
date: 2024-06-21 10:00:00 +0000
categories: [Travel, Cities]
tags: [City]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
description: While in Wrexham for a meeting, I decided to spend a morning in Chester to see what it had to offer.
comments: false
---
{% include embed/youtube.html id='Pq1WHig0ABs' %}

### Setting Off

I began my journey at a Premier Inn in Wrexham. It wasn’t a glamorous start, but the stay was pleasant enough. The plan was simple: cross the road, catch a train to Chester (which would take about 15 minutes), and see what the city had to offer.

### Arrival in Chester

Upon arriving in Chester, I found myself a bit aimless. My meticulous planning—translated to zero research—meant I had no idea where to go. So, naturally, I began to wander. It wasn’t long before I stumbled upon the Eastgate Clock, reputedly the second most photographed clock in England after Big Ben. From atop Eastgate, which is an ancient gate into Chester, the view was already capturing my imagination.

### Walking the Roman Walls

Chester's history is rich, and its Roman roots are particularly evident in the city's ancient walls, originally built to defend the Roman Empire against the English and Welsh. Reconstructed during the 16th and early 17th centuries, these walls now feature a collection of gorgeous black and white timber buildings—an architectural treat, albeit many are empty today.

### A Historic Journey

As I ambled opposite the cathedral, I encountered the visitor center, housed in what seemed to be an old town hall. Or was it? If anyone knows its previous incarnation, feel free to drop a comment! From there, I set my sights on the Roman amphitheater, a historical goal to aim for.

### Navigating Chester

With an initial wrong turn thwarted by a helpful map, I trekked past the cathedral, weaving through the fascinating juxtaposition of medieval and modern architecture. The streets bore the contrasts: grand cathedrals, nostalgic half-timbered buildings of the 17th century, and 70s and 80s office buildings.

### Medieval Shopping Malls

Bridge Street offered another unique sight: a two-layered array of shops, reminiscent of a medieval shopping mall. This 13th-century creation fascinated me, especially in a world where many urban centers struggle to keep just one layer of retail spaces occupied.

### The Roman Gardens

Before I knew it, an hour had passed, and I still hadn't found the Roman amphitheatre. Instead, I wandered into the Roman Gardens, a collection of artifacts from across the Roman Empire. Though most pieces weren’t originally from Chester, the gardens provided a rich visual and historical feast. Among the curiosities, I found an old Roman bath actually hailing from Chester

### Reaching the Amphitheatre

Eventually, after navigating Newgate (aptly named for being the ‘newest’ gate), I discovered the amphitheatre. The site was large, about the size of a modern theater with a capacity of around 7,000 people. Initially, I had no idea what to expect, possibly just a grassy bowl, but the partially restored site offered a peek into Roman theatrical life.

### Reflecting on Chester

My time in Chester, though brief, was incredibly rewarding. There’s an enduring charm in its mix of historical periods reflected in the architecture and atmosphere. If you enjoyed this lighthearted romp through history as much as I did, consider leaving a like and maybe even subscribing!

As I rushed to catch my train back to Wrexham—a journey that seemed longer due to the short time left before my meeting—I couldn’t help but think Chester deserves a longer visit. There's always more to see when you allow a city to unfold its tales one wander at a time.