---
title: A Hidden Gem, Exploring Sham Castle in Bath
date: 2024-03-15 10:00:00 +0000
categories: [Travel, Cities]
tags: [City]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
description: Bath, a city renowned for its stunning Georgian architecture and historical landmarks, offers much more than just its popular tourist sites. In this post, we take a different route, avoiding the well-trodden paths to visit a lesser-known attraction - Sham Castle. Join us on this journey as we explore Bath's hidden treasures.
comments: false
---
{% include embed/youtube.html id='pRiTBCuVq8o' %}

### Discovering the Unexpected

We find ourselves in Bath today, as you might have guessed from the title. But this isn't your typical tour of the city. Instead of focusing on well-known landmarks like the Royal Crescent — famous from works like "Bridgerton" and "The Count of Monte Cristo" — we're headed to a hidden gem located near a golf course, about two miles from the city center. But while we're here, why not take a stroll through Bath's beautiful streets?

### Unforgettable Sightseeing

One of the first things that catches our eye is the Primark storefront, a surprising highlight with its elegant facade. This is part of the joy of exploring Bath; sometimes, the unexpected finds are the most delightful.

Venturing slightly off the intended path, we come across Abbey Green. Nestled in the shadow of Bath Abbey, this quaint little square features a charming tree in its center and a handful of boutique shops. The Abbey itself, dating back to the late 18th century though rebuilt in the mid-20th century, still echoes its centuries-old origins.

### The Charm of Bath's Streets

What's truly remarkable about Bath is the consistent beauty of its architecture. Each side street is lined with magnificent houses, maybe not as grand but certainly in the same style as the city's signature buildings.

Our walk brings us to Henrietta Park, a verdant space built in 1897 to commemorate Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee. Bath is full of landmarks paying homage to Queen Victoria, adding another layer to its rich history.

### The Quest Begins

But let's not get distracted. The true reason for our visit lies ahead. With half the journey behind us, it's time to uncover the mystery. Though it takes a few wrong turns, we finally find ourselves on the right path.

### Bath’s Undiscovered Treasure

As expected, Bath's landscape is a series of steep hills juxtaposed against beautiful architecture. While catching our breath on one of these hills, we recall a tidbit about Queen Victoria. During her visit to Bath at the age of 11, she was rumored to have been offended by a comment about her ankles and never returned to the city. Nonetheless, many parks are named in her honor.

A missed road doesn't deter us; instead, it leads us to the biggest clue of the day. We continue with renewed vigor, spurred on by a literal sign directing us to our destination.

### Sham Castle: The Facade of Fantasy

After a grueling climb, we reach Sham Castle. In the 17th and 18th centuries, owning an extensive manor or castle was the height of fashion. With castles in limited supply, the solution was to build a faux castle—a 'folly'—to grace one's estate and impress visitors.

Sham Castle is exactly that. Built in the 18th century and restored in the 1920s, this structure is essentially a facade, designed to look impressive from the front. It now neighbors a golf course, adding to its quirky charm.

### The Big Reveal

Upon arriving, it's clear why Sham Castle is so enchanting. From the front, it presents an imposing sight. However, the back reveals the truth: it's merely a facade. Not because of decay or destruction, but simply because it was always intended to be this way. Sham Castle is a testament to the whims of the wealthy from a bygone era.

---

Bath never ceases to amaze, with both famous attractions and hidden gems like Sham Castle. Whether you're a history buff or just love a good walk, make sure to deviate from the beaten path to discover what lies beyond your expectations.